Documentation for automated publishing (#4513)
dart-lang/site-www: src/tools/pub/automated-publishing.md

    # - 'my_package_name-v[0-9]+.[0-9]+.[0-9]+*'

# Publish using the reusable workflow from dart-lang.
jobs:
  publish:
    uses: dart-lang/setup-dart/.github/workflows/publish.yml@v1
    # with:
    #   working-directory: path/to/package/within/repository
```

Make sure to match the pattern in `on.push.tags` with the _tag pattern_
specified on pub.dev. Otherwise, the GitHub Action workflow won’t work.

The workflow file above uses
`dart-lang/setup-dart/.github/workflows/publish.yml` to publish the package.
This is a [reusable workflow][3] that allows the Dart team to maintain
the publishing logic and enables pub.dev to know how the package was published.
Using this _reusable workflow_ is strongly encouraged.

If you need generated code in your package, then it is preferable to check this
generated code into your repository.
This simplifies verifying that the files published on pub.dev match
the files from your repository. If checking generated or built artifact into
your repository is not reasonable, you can create a custom workflow along
the lines of:

```yaml
# .github/workflows/publish.yml
name: Publish to pub.dev

> on:f

Reviewer: Is this `f` accidental?

```suggestion
on:
```

   and uses it for publishing to pub.dev
 * Configure a Cloud Build trigger, for running the steps in `cloudbuild.yaml`
   in your project on Google Cloud Build.

Following sections will outline how to complete these steps.

{{site.alert.note}}
  When you enable automated publishing from a _service account_ you must carefully
  review who has the ability to impersonate this service account, either by
  calling through APIs, exporting service account keys or through changing
  IAM permission in the cloud project.
  To learn more, check out [managing service account impersonation][11].
{{site.alert.end}}

### Creating a service account for publishing

For publishing to pub.dev we are going to create a _service account_ that is
granted permission to publish your package on pub.dev. We are then going to
grant Cloud Build permission to impersonate this service account.

1. [Create a cloud project][12], if you don't have an existing project.
1. Create a _service account_, this can be done as follows:

    ```sh
    gcloud iam service-accounts create pub-dev \
      --description='Service account to be impersonated when publishing to pub.dev' \
      --display-name='pub-dev'
    ```

>     This will create a service account named

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This creates a service account named
```

    `pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com`.

1. Grant the service account permission to publish your package.

   To complete this step, you must have _uploader_ permission on the package or

>    _admin_ of the publisher that owns the package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   be an _admin_ of the publisher that owns the package.
```

   a. Navigate to the **Admin** tab (`pub.dev/packages/<package>/admin`).

>    a. Click the **Enable publishing with Google Cloud Service account**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   a. Click **Enable publishing with Google Cloud Service account**.
```

  intend to run Cloud Build. If you need to impersonate across cloud projects,
  refer to [enabling service account impersonation across projects][27].
{{site.alert.end}}

### Granting Cloud Build permission to publish

To publish from Cloud Build you must give the
[default Cloud Build service account][13] permission to impersonate 
the service account created for publishing in the previous section.

1. Enable the [IAM Service Account Credentials API][14] in the cloud project.
   Attempts to impersonate a service account will fail without this API.

   ```sh
   # Enable IAM Service Account Credentials API
   gcloud services enable iamcredentials.googleapis.com
   ```

1. Find the project number.

   ```sh
   # The PROJECT_NUMBER can be obtained as follows:
   gcloud projects describe $PROJECT_ID --format='value(projectNumber)'
   ```

1. Grant the permission to impersonate the publishing service account.

   ```sh
   # Grant default cloud
   gcloud iam service-accounts add-iam-policy-binding \
     pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
     --member=serviceAccount:$PROJECT_NUMBER@cloudbuild.gserviceaccount.com \
     --role=roles/iam.serviceAccountTokenCreator
   ```

> ### Writing a Cloud Build Configuration File

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Writing a Cloud Build configuration file
```

> To publish from Cloud Build, we must specify steps for Cloud Build to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To publish from Cloud Build, you must specify steps for Cloud Build to:
```

 * Impersonate the service account to obtain a temporary OIDC token.

>  * Provide the temporary OIDC token to `dart pub` for use when publishing
>  * Calling `dart pub publish` to publish the package

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 * Provide the temporary OIDC token to `dart pub` for use when publishing.
 * Calling `dart pub publish` to publish the package.
```

Steps for Google Cloud Build are provided in a `cloudbuild.yaml` file, see
[build configuration file schema][15] for full documentation of the format.

For publishing to pub.dev from Google Cloud Build, a `cloudbuild.yaml` file as
follows will do:

```yaml
# cloudbuild.yaml
steps:
- id: Create temporary token
  name: gcr.io/cloud-builders/gcloud
  volumes:
  - name: temporary-secrets
    path: /secrets
  script: |
    gcloud auth print-identity-token \
      --impersonate-service-account=pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
      --audiences=https://pub.dev \
      --include-email > /secrets/temporary-pub-token.txt
  env:
  - PROJECT_ID=$PROJECT_ID
- id: Publish to pub.dev
  name: dart
  volumes:
  - name: temporary-secrets
    path: /secrets
  script: | 
    cat /secrets/temporary-pub-token.txt | dart pub token add https://pub.dev
    dart pub publish --force
```

The `gcloud auth print-identity-token` creates an OIDC `id_token` impersonating
the specified service account. This `id_token` is signed by Google, with a

> signature that expires within 1 hour. The _audiences_ parameters lets pub.dev

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
signature that expires within 1 hour. The _audiences_ parameter lets pub.dev
```

know that it is the intended recipient of the token. The `--include-email`

> option is necessary for pub.dev to be able to recognize the service account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
option is necessary for pub.dev to recognize the service account.
```

> Once the `id_token` is created it is written to a file that resides in a
> _volume_, this mechanism is used to [pass data between steps][16].
> Don't store the token in `/workspace`. Since `/workspace` is where the
> repository from which you wish to publish is checked out.
> Not using `/workspace` for storing the token, reduces the risk that you
> accidentally include it in your package when publishing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the `id_token` is created, it's written to a file that resides in a
_volume_; this mechanism is used to [pass data between steps][16].
Don't store the token in `/workspace`. Since `/workspace` is where the
repository from which you wish to publish is checked out.
Not using `/workspace` for storing the token reduces the risk that you
accidentally include it in your package when publishing.
```

### Creating a Cloud Build trigger

With service accounts configured and a `cloudbuild.yaml` file in the repository

> we can create a _Cloud Build Trigger_ using the [console.cloud.google.com][28]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you can create a _Cloud Build Trigger_ using the [console.cloud.google.com][28]
```

dashboard.
To create a build trigger, you need to connect to a _source repository_
and specify which events should trigger a build. You can use [GitHub][18],
[Cloud Source Repository][19], or one of the [other options][20].
To learn how to configure a _Cloud Build Trigger_, check out
[creating and managing build triggers][21].

> To use the `cloudbuild.yaml` from previous step, you should configure the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the `cloudbuild.yaml` from the previous step, configure the
```

_Cloud Build Trigger_ type as "Cloud Build Configuration" located in the
repository in the `/cloudbuild.yaml` file.
Do **not** specify a _service account_ for the build to be triggered with.
Instead you'll want to use the default service account for Cloud Build.

[!Configuration for trigger](gcb-trigger-configuration.png)

{{site.alert.note}}
  You can configure the Cloud Build trigger to run under a custom
  _service account_. If you want to do this, create a new service
  account for this purpose. Allow this service account to impersonate

>   the `pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com` account which can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the `pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com` account, which can
```

  publish to pub.dev.

>   In the configuration of the `pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com`
>   _service account_ we allowed the default Cloud Build service account:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 The configuration of the `pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com`
  _service account_ allowed the default Cloud Build service account,
```

  `$PROJECT_NUMBER@cloudbuild.gserviceaccount.com`, to impersonate the 
  `pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com` service account.
  If using a custom service account for the Cloud Build, you'll need to change
  this.

  To learn more about custom service accounts for running Cloud Builds,
  check out [Configuring user-specified service accounts][22].
{{site.alert.end}}

> When configuring your Cloud Build Trigger, consider who can trigger the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When configuring your Cloud Build trigger, consider who can trigger the
```

> build. _Because triggering a build may publish a new version of your package_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
build. _Because triggering a build might publish a new version of your package_.
```

> Consider allowing only allowing manual builds or use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider only allowing manual builds or use
```

[Cloud Build approvals][17] to gate builds as outlined in next section.

### Hardening security with Cloud Build Approvals

> When configuring a Cloud Build Trigger, you can select

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When configuring a Cloud Build trigger, you can select
```

> **require approval before build executes**. If a Cloud Build Trigger

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**require approval before build executes**. If a Cloud Build trigger
```

requires approval, it won't run when triggered. Instead, it'll wait for
approval.
This can be used to limit who can publish new versions of your package.

[!Enabling approvals in configuration of the Cloud Build trigger](gcb-approval-checkbox.png)

Only a user with the **Cloud Build Approver** role can give approval.
When giving a approval, the approver can specify a URL and comment.

[!Cloud Build run waiting for approval to run](gcp-waiting-for-approval.png)

You can also configure notifications for pending approvals.
To learn more, check out [gate build on approval][17].

## Publish from anywhere using a Service Account

> To do automated publishing outside of GitHub Actions, you may

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To allow automated publishing outside of GitHub Actions, you might
```

authenticate using service accounts in way similiar to _Cloud Build_.

This usually involves:
* [Create a service account for publishing][create-svc],
* Impersonate the publishing service account in one of two ways:
  * Workload Identity Federation
  * Exported Service Account Keys

The section for _Cloud Build_ outlined how to
[create a service account for publishing][create-svc].

> This should provide a service account that like

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This should provide a service account, such as
```

`pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com`.

[create-svc]: #creating-a-service-account-for-publishing

### Publish using Workload Identity Federation

When running on a cloud service that supports OIDC or SAML,
you can impersonate a GCP service account using
[Workload Identity Federation][23]. This enables you to
leverage your cloud provider's identity services.

> For example: If you deploy on EC2, you can
> [configure workload identity federation with AWS][24]. This allows
> temporary AWS tokens from the EC2 metadata service to impersonate a
> service account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if deploying on EC2, you can
[configure workload identity federation with AWS][24], allowing
temporary AWS tokens from the EC2 metadata service to impersonate a
service account.
```

To learn how to configure these flows, check out
[workload identity federation][25].

### Publish using Exported Service Account Keys

When running on a custom system without identity services, you
can export service account keys. Exported service account keys allows you to
authenticate as said _service account_.
To learn more, check out how to
[create and manage service account keys][26].

#### Export service account keys

1. Create exported service account keys for an existing service account.

    ```sh
    gcloud iam service-accounts keys create key-file.json \
      --iam-account=pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com
    ```

1. Save the `key-file.json` file for later use.

{{site.alert.warning}}
  Treat the `key-file.json` like a password.
  Anyone who gains access to it can authenticate as the service account
  and publish your package.
{{site.alert.end}}

#### Publish packages using exported service account keys

To publish a package using exported service account keys:

> 1. Setup gcloud to authenticate using `key-file.json` (created in previous step)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Setup gcloud to authenticate using `key-file.json` (created in the previous step)
```

    ```sh
    gcloud auth activate-service-account --key-file=key-file.json
    ```

1. Create a temporary token for pub.dev and pass it to
   `dart pub token add https://pub.dev`.
   To impersonate service account, include the `--include-email` option.

    ```sh
    gcloud auth print-identity-token \
      --audiences=https://pub.dev \
      | dart pub token add https://pub.dev
    ```

1. Publish using the temporary token.
   Add the `--force` option to skip the `yes/no` prompt.

    ```sh
    dart pub publish --force
    ```

{{site.alert.note}}

>   Consider using [Workload Identity Federation][23] if possible. This

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Consider using [Workload Identity Federation][23], if possible. This
```

This automation requires authenticating to `pub.dev` using either
[GitHub-signed OpenID Connect tokens][1] or a [GCP Service Account][2].

With these methods of automated publishing, you don't need to store
long-lived secrets. The `dart pub` client authenticates using temporary
tokens that either GitHub Actions or Google Cloud IAM have signed.

## Enable publishing packages using GitHub Actions

To publish from [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions),
you must:

1. Enable automated publishing for the package on `pub.dev`.
   You need to provide the following information in `pub.dev`:
   * Your package's GitHub _repository_ from which you publish the
     package.
   * A _`tag-pattern`_ that git tags must match to permit publishing.
1. Create a GitHub Action workflow for publishing in GitHub.
1. Create a `pubspec.yaml` file in your repository.
   This file requires a `version` key with a value that matches the
   `tag-pattern`.
1. Create a git tag for your latest commit.
   This tag also must match the `tag-pattern`.

{{site.alert.note}}
  GitHub Actions can publish to `pub.dev` only when a push of a git tag
  to GitHub triggers the Action _workflow_.

>   If a GitHub Actions triggers publishing without a tag, `pub.dev`

Author: Or we revert back to my text:
>   Pub.dev rejects publishing from GitHub Actions triggered without a tag.

Since new text is grammartically flawed I'm going back.

  rejects it.
  This ensures that events that don't trigger publish result in
  publishing new versions.
{{site.alert.end}}

> ## Configure automated publishing from GitHub Actions on pub.dev

Author: Perhaps an outline of this document could be:
 * Introduction: stating you can publish from github actions, gcb, or anywhere with service accounts.
 * Section: Publishing packages using Github Actions
    * Outline of steps required to do this:
       * Enable automated publishing on pub.dev
       * Create a workflow file
       * Trigger publishing
    * Subsection: Configure automated publishing from GitHub Actions on pub.dev
       * How to do the things that has to do be done on pub.dev
       * How `tag-pattern` works, what it is...
    * Subsection: Configure a GitHub Action workflow to publish to pub.dev
      * How to create the workflow file `.github/workflows/publish.yml`
      * How to create a custom workflow, if needed.
    * Subsection: Triggering automated publishing from Github Actions
      * How to update the version in `pubspec.yaml` (or just stating that you need to)
      * How to create and push a tag
      * Where to find the workflow logs
      * How things show up in audit-log on pub.dev
    * Subsection: Troubleshooting publishing from GitHub Actions
      * Check workflow logs
      * Check pattern triggering the workflow
      * Check tag-pattern on pub.dev
    * Hardening security when publishing from Github Actions
      * Why you might want to harden security (because anyone with push access to repo, can trigger publish)
      * Subsubsection: Hardening security with tag protection rules on GitHub
        * How to use tag protection rules
        * Limitations of tag protection rules
        * Suggestiong to use deployment environments (next section)
      * Subsubsection: Hardening security with GitHub Deployment Environments
        * How to require a deployment environment on pub.dev
        * How to create deployment environment on Github
        * How to alter your workflow
        * FACT: environment is reflected in the OIDC token and enforced by pub.dev; modifying workflow files won't work around it.
        * Suggestion to use "environment protection rules" on github, which supports "required reviewers"
        * Screenshot: github action pending review

I think splitting "Configure a GitHub Action workflow to publish to pub.dev" into multiple subsections is confusing. And I think a subsection in the middle on updating "pubspec.yaml" is confusing.

I'm not sure, we need "Hardening security when publishing from Github Actions" as this creates subsubsections for the two ways of hardening. And we could just put the WHY under the first hardening section.

I'm also not sure we need a separate troubleshooting section, we could put that under the triggering section. But maybe that's also fine and useful.

And other tweak on the outline could be:
   * Introduction: stating you can publish from github actions, gcb, or anywhere with service accounts.
 * Section: Publishing packages using Github Actions
    * Outline of steps required to do this:
       * Enable automated publishing on pub.dev
       * Create a workflow file
       * Trigger publishing
    * Subsection: Configure automated publishing from GitHub Actions on pub.dev
       * How to do the things that has to do be done on pub.dev
       * How `tag-pattern` works, what it is...
    * Subsection: Configure a GitHub Action workflow to publish to pub.dev
      * How to create the workflow file `.github/workflows/publish.yml`
      * How to create a custom workflow, if needed.
    * Subsection: Triggering automated publishing from Github Actions
      * How to update the version in `pubspec.yaml` (or just stating that you need to)
      * How to create and push a tag
      * Where to find the workflow logs
      * How to troubleshoot: check workflow logs, check pattern in workflow, check pattern on pub.dev
      * How things show up in audit-log on pub.dev
    * Subsection: Hardening security with tag protection rules on GitHub
      * Why you might want to harden security (because anyone with push access to repo, can trigger publish)
      * How to use tag protection rules
      * Limitations of tag protection rules
      * Suggestiong to use deployment environments (next section)
    * Subsection: Hardening security with GitHub Deployment Environments
      * How to require a deployment environment on pub.dev
      * How to create deployment environment on Github
      * How to alter your workflow
      * FACT: environment is reflected in the OIDC token and enforced by pub.dev; modifying workflow files won't work around it.
      * Suggestion to use "environment protection rules" on github, which supports "required reviewers"
      * Screenshot: github action pending review

1. Write the GitHub repository in the **Repository** field.

   A _repository_ contains all of your package's files on GitHub.
   This field expects a format of `<organization>/<repository>`.
   For example: If the URL for your repository resembles
   `https://github.com/dart-lang/pana`, write `dart-lang/pana` in the
   **Repository** field.

1. Write the _`tag-pattern`_ into the **Tag pattern** field.

   A `tag-pattern` represents the version of the package.
   This field expects a string that includes the literal
   `{% raw %}{{version}}{% endraw %}`.
   Github Actions can publish your package only if a push of a git tag
   matching this `tag-pattern` triggers the Action.
   The package's `pubspec.yaml` file requires the `version` key.
   This key's value must match the `{% raw %}{{version}}{% endraw %}`
   in the `tag-pattern`.

1. Click **Update**.

<!-- **Example:** You wrote your `tag-pattern` as `v{{version}}`.
You then tag this commit and push it.

```shell
git tag v1.2.3 && git push v1.2.3
```

This push triggers Github Actions to publish version `1.2.3` of
your package. -->

If your repository contains multiple packages, give each a separate

> `tag-pattern`. Consider using a `tag-pattern` like

Author: ```
`tag-pattern`
```
is wrong, _tag-pattern_ is a term not and identifier.

I fear writing it as code will just confuse people.

`my_package_name-v``{% raw %}{{version}}{% endraw %}` for a package
named `my_package_name`.

> ## Prepare your package repository for automated publishing

Author: This is confusing.... you're preparing the `pubspec.yaml` for publishing a specific version, not for configuring automated publishing.

After you enable automated publishing from GitHub Actions on pub.dev,
you need to make two changes to your package repository.

1. Modify the package's `pubspec.yaml` file.
2. Create a GitHub Action workflow file.

### Update pubspec.yaml with the package version

The `pubspec.yaml` file must reflect the current version of the package.

1. Navigate to the root of your local copy of your package repository.
1. Open the `pubspec.yaml` file using your preferred editor.
1. Update or add the `version` key with the correct version number.
   The version number must follow [semantic versioning][27].

    ```yaml
    package: my_package_name
    version: 1.2.3  # must match the version number used in the git tag
    environment:
      sdk: ^2.18.0

>     ...

Author: This has to do with publishing a specific version. Not configuration.
I suggest we drop it

    ```

### Create a GitHub Action workflow to publish to pub.dev

create a GitHub Action workflow in the package repository.

> 1. Navigate to the root of your local copy of your package repository.

Author: You dont' have to use the local copy

1. Create a `.github/workflows/publish.yml` file using your preferred
   editor.

> 1. Add the following content to this file.

Author: Perhaps this is too detailed.

I think it's okay, not to use "your preferred editor" :D
But more importantly, if we say things like "Navigate to the root of your local copy".
Then we also need to say, that you need to push it to your main branch, etc.

Okay, to be fair, maybe we should say that it's important that changes to the workflow file lands on your main branch :D

---------------------

Maybe, it'd be better to just say:

> Create the following workflow and push it to your main branch.

The first comment of the file says `.github/workflows/publish.yml`, and the name of the file doesn't matter. so long as it lives in `.github/workflows/`.

Or if we want to accurate:
> Create a `.github/workflows/publish.yml` workflow file as follows, and push it to your `main` branch.

   This content assumes that you wrote your `tag-pattern` in `pub.dev`
   as `v{{version}}`.

    ```yaml
    # .github/workflows/publish.yml
    name: Publish to pub.dev

    on:
      push:
        tags:
        # must align with the tag pattern configured on pub.dev, often just replace
        # {{version}} with [0-9]+.[0-9]+.[0-9]+*
        - 'v[0-9]+.[0-9]+.[0-9]+*' # tag pattern on pub.dev: 'v{{version}}'
        # If you prefer tags like '1.2.3', without the 'v' prefix, then use:
        # - '[0-9]+.[0-9]+.[0-9]+*' # tag pattern on pub.dev: '{{version}}'
        # If you repository contains multiple packages consider a pattern like:
        # - 'my_package_name-v[0-9]+.[0-9]+.[0-9]+*'

    # Publish using the reusable workflow from dart-lang.
    jobs:
      publish:
        uses: dart-lang/setup-dart/.github/workflows/publish.yml

>         # with:

Author: I'm pretty sure it will. If not it's a bug we should fix in `setup-dart`

        #   working-directory: path/to/package/within/repository
    ```

Make sure to match the pattern in `on.push.tags` with the `tag-pattern`
specified on pub.dev. Otherwise, the GitHub Action workflow won’t work.

<!--
TODO: The file described in the following passage does not exist.
We can re-include it once the file has been created and merged.

The preceding workflow file uses
`dart-lang/setup-dart/.github/workflows/publish.yml` to publish the package.
This _[reusable workflow][3]_ allows the Dart team to maintain
the publishing logic and enables `pub.dev` to know how the package was published.
Though optional, the Dart team encourages using this reusable workflow.
-->

### Create a custom GitHub Action workflow to publish to pub.dev

If you need generated code in your package, check this generated code

> into your repository. This simplifies verifying if the files

Author: > If you need generated code in your package, check this generated code
> into your repository. 

This is a strong statement. And contradicts next sentence.

Better to write:
>If you need generated code in your package, then it is preferable to check this generated code
> into your repository.

jobs:
  publish:
    permissions:
      id-token: write # This is required for authentication using OIDC
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - uses: dart-lang/setup-dart
      - name: Install dependencies
        run: dart pub get
      # Here you can insert custom steps you need
      # - run: dart tool/generate-code.dart
      - name: Publish
        run: dart pub publish --force
```

The workflow authenticates to `pub.dev` using a temporary [token][1].
Create and configure this token in the `dart-lang/setup-dart` `step` in
the `publish.yaml` file.
To publish to `pub.dev`, subsequent steps can run
`dart pub publish --force`.

{{site.alert.note}}
  At this point in this guide, anyone with push access to your
  repository can publish new versions of the package.
  Consider using [tag protection rules][sec-gh-tag-protection] or
  [GitHub deployment Environments][sec-gh-environment] to limit who can
  publish.
{{site.alert.end}}

[sec-gh-tag-protection]: #hardening-security-with-tag-protection-rules-on-github
[sec-gh-environment]: #hardening-security-with-github-deployment-environments

## Trigger automated publishing using Github Actions

> After you have completed the preceding activities, you can publish a

Author: Is it really unreasonable to say:
> After you've configured automated publishing on `pub.dev` and created a
> GitHub Actions workflow

instead of  "the preceding activities"

I see how "the preceding activities" is shorter, but also not entirely clear what we're referring.
If we had support for proper section references I would write "After completeting (1) and (2)".
Otherwise, it's kind of hard to guess what we're talking about, and I'm not sure we want to leave users guessing.

new version of your package.

1. Verify your package's version.

    ```console
    $ cat pubspec.yaml
    package: my_package_name
    version: 1.2.3            # must match the version number used in the git tag
    environment:
      sdk: ^2.18.0
    ...
    ```

1. Tag the latest commit with the matching `tag-pattern`.

    ```console

>     $ git tag v1.2.3          # assuming my tag pattern is: 'v{{version}}'

Author: no

    ```

1. Push the tag to GitHub.

    ```console

>     $ git push origin v1.2.3  # triggers the action that publishes my package.

Author: no

    ```

1. Review the GitHub Action workflow logs at
   `https://github.com/<organization>/<repository>/actions`.

If you don't like using the `git` command to create tags, you can
create _releases_ on GitHub.
To learn more, check out [managing releases in a repository][4] in the
GitHub documentation.

> 

Author: moved it in above

## Troubleshoot issues with GitHub Actions

* If the Action didn't trigger, check that the pattern configured in
  `.github/workflows/publish.yml` matches the pushed _git tag_.
* If the Action failed, the GitHub Action logs may contain clues as to
  why it failed. If the log offered no clues, check that you set the

>   proper `organization/repository` and `tag-pattern` on `pub.dev`.

Author: I think we can just leave this as a paragraph, it's just two lines, suggesting that you do the obvious, if things don't work. This is not a step by step troubleshooting guide.

We're not making such a guide, we're documeting how things work, and hoping users can put 2 and 2 together.

Once published, you can see the publication event in the **Activity Log** on
`pub.dev`.
The **Activity Log** entry should contain a link to the GitHub Action run
that published the package version.

![Audit log after publishing from GitHub Actions](audit-log-pub-gh.png)

> ## Hardening security of automated publishing

Author: I don't think we need this sectioning

### Hardening security with tag protection rules on GitHub

Configuring automated publishing from GitHub Actions has one security
flaw. Any GitHub user who can push a tag to your repository can publish
your package.
To restrict who can push tags to your repository, use
[tag protection rules][5] on GitHub.

> By limiting who creates tags matching your `tag-pattern`,

Author: again, _tag-pattern_ is not an identifier.

you limit who can publish the package.

At this time, these [tag protection rules][5] lack flexibility. You may
want to restrict who can trigger publishing using _GitHub Deployment
environments_. The next section outlines this process.

### Hardening security with GitHub Deployment Environments

> When configuring automated publishing from GitHub Actions in `pub.dev`,

Author: ```suggestion
When configuring automated publishing from GitHub Actions on pub.dev,
```

`<code>` is not a emphasis, it's to highlight identifiers or code snippets to be copied directly.

you can require a _[GitHub Actions environment][6]_.
To use a GitHub Actions environment for publishing you must:

1. Navigate to the **Admin** tab (`pub.dev/packages/<package>/admin`)
   in `pub.dev`.
1. Find the **Automated publishing** section.
1. Click **Require GitHub Actions environment**.
   The **Environment** field displays.

    ![Configure pub.dev to require a GitHub deployment environment](pub-dev-gh-env-setup.png)

1. Write an environment name into the **Environment** field.

>    To keep the process simple, use `pub.dev`.

Author: Let's not tell the user what to use.
We are documenting how this feature works.

If we wanted the user to use a specific value, we would have hardcoded into pub.dev

> 1. Click **Update**.

Author: This probably unncessary.

When you configure an environment on `pub.dev`, you need to update the
`publish.yml` file for GitHub Action workflow in your repository.
You need to add the `environment` key with a value that matches the
**Environment** field value in `pub.dev`.

1. [Create an environment][8] in your GitHub repository.
   This environment must use the same name you provided in `pub.dev`.
1. Open your `.github/workflows/publish.yml` workflow file in your
   preferred editor.
1. Add the `environment` key with the corresponding value.

>    The result should resemble the following file:

Author: I think it's better to just say:
> 1. Alter your `.github/workflows/publish.yml` workflow file to specify
   `environment: pub.dev`, as follows:

    ```yaml
    # .github/workflows/publish.yml
    name: Publish to pub.dev

    on:
      push:
        tags:
        - 'v[0-9]+.[0-9]+.[0-9]+*' # for tags like: 'v1.2.3'

    jobs:
      publish:
        uses: dart-lang/setup-dart/.github/workflows/publish.yml
        with:
          # Specify the github actions deployment environment
          environment: pub.dev
          # working-directory: path/to/package/within/repository
    ```

The temporary [GitHub-signed OpenID Connect token][1] includes the
environment value used to authenticate with `pub.dev`. 
This prevents a user with push permission on your repository from
modifying the workflow file to circumvent

> [environment protection rules][7].

Author: No it doesn't!

You user can still modify the workflow file, but modifying the file doesn't circumvent environment protection rules.

   check out [creating and managing projects][12]. 
1. Create a _service account_. This account needs permission to publish your
   package on `pub.dev` and must exist in the same cloud project where you run
   Cloud Build.
   Run the following command to create a service account:

   ```console
   gcloud iam service-accounts create pub-dev \
     --description='Service account to be impersonated when publishing to pub.dev' \
     --display-name='pub-dev'
   ```

   This command results in a service account named:
   `pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com`.

1. Grant the service account permission to publish your package.

   This step requires _uploader_ permission on the package or
   _admin_ of the publisher that owns the package.

   1. Navigate to the **Admin** tab (`pub.dev/packages/<package>/admin`).
   1. Click **Enable publishing with Google Cloud Service account**.
      The **Service account email** field displays.
   1. Type the email of the service account into the
      **Service account email** field.
      You created this account in the previous step:
      `pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com`

>       ![Configuration that allows service account to publish on pub.dev](pub-dev-gcb-config.png)

Author: I think this is a separate step, ideally a separate section.

You might have a service account already.

1. Click **Update**.

With this procedure complete, anyone who can impersonate the service
account can publish new versions of the package.
Review who has permissions to [impersonate the service account][11] and
change permissions in the cloud project as needed.

### Grant Cloud Build permission to publish

To publish from Cloud Build, give the 
[default Cloud Build service account][13] permission to
[impersonate the service account][11] you created in the previous
section.

> 1. Enable the [IAM Service Account Credentials API][] in the cloud

Author: broken link

> 1. Enable the [IAM Service Account Credentials API][] in the cloud

Author: broken link

   project. Attempts to impersonate the service account fail without
   this API.

   ```console
   gcloud services enable iamcredentials.googleapis.com
   ```

1. Find the project number.

   ```console
   gcloud projects describe $PROJECT_ID --format='value(projectNumber)'
   ```

1. Grant permission to impersonate the publishing service account.

   ```console
   gcloud iam service-accounts add-iam-policy-binding \
     pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
     --member=serviceAccount:$PROJECT_NUMBER@cloudbuild.gserviceaccount.com \
     --role=roles/iam.serviceAccountTokenCreator
   ```

### Create a Cloud Build Configuration File

> To publish from Cloud Build, enable Cloud Build to:

Author: I don't understand this.

You specify these steps for Google Cloud Build in a `cloudbuild.yaml`
file. To learn more about the format of this file, check out
[build configuration file schema][15].

A Cloud Build configuration file that works with this example should
resemble the following YAML markup:

```yaml
# cloudbuild.yaml
steps:
- id: Create temporary token
  name: gcr.io/cloud-builders/gcloud
  volumes:
  - name: temporary-secrets
    path: /secrets
  script: |
    gcloud auth print-identity-token \
      --impersonate-service-account=pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com \
      --audiences=https://pub.dev \
      --include-email > /secrets/temporary-pub-token.txt
  env:
  - PROJECT_ID=$PROJECT_ID
- id: Publish to pub.dev
  name: dart
  volumes:
  - name: temporary-secrets
    path: /secrets
  script: | 
    cat /secrets/temporary-pub-token.txt | dart pub token add https://pub.dev
    dart pub publish --force
```

The `Create temporary token` step features the
`gcloud auth print-identity-token` script.
This script performs the following actions:

* It creates an OpenID Connect `id_token`.
  Google signs this `id_token`. The signature that expires within one

>   hour.

Author: what signature? probably a grammar issue

* The `--impersonate-service-account` option identifies the service
  account to impersonate. This example uses the service account created
  in a previous activity in this guide.
* The `--audiences` option identifies `pub.dev` as the intended
  recipient of the token. 
* The `--include-email` option requests that `pub.dev` recognize the
  service account.

Once you create the `id_token`, Google Cloud writes it to a file that
resides in a _volume_. Google Cloud uses this mechanism to
[pass data between steps][16].
Don't store the token in `/workspace`.
Google Cloud checks out your repository into `/workspace`.
If you store the token in `/workspace`, your published package includes

> the `id_token`.

Author: That's a strong an unsubstantiated statement.

It may, if you don't delete it or remove it, but it's not a certainty.
Or rather, I'm unwilling to formally prove that this is always the case.

### Creating a Cloud Build trigger

With a service account configured and a `cloudbuild.yaml` file in

> the repository, use [console.cloud.google.com](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-build/triggers)

Author: you can use the console, you don't have to... you can also do it with `gcloud`, etc.

dashboard to create a _Cloud Build Trigger_.
To create a build trigger, you need to connect to a _source repository_
and specify which events should trigger a build. You can use [GitHub][18],
[Cloud Source Repository][19], or one of the [other options][20].
To learn how to configure a _Cloud Build Trigger_, check out
[creating and managing build triggers][21].

To publish packages using the Cloud Build Configuration file you created:

1. Open the **Triggers** page in the Google Cloud console.
1. Select your project from the project selector drop-down menu at the
   top of the page.

> 1. Click **Open**.

Author: Let's assume users that needs steps don't have many projects.

1. If you have an existing trigger, open it. 

>    If you need a new trigger, [create it][28].

Author: I think creating a trigger is probably best for this guide.

1. Scroll to the **Configuration** section.
1. Click **Cloud Build Configuration**.

    ![Configuration for trigger](gcb-trigger-configuration.png)

1. Do **not** specify a **Service account** to trigger the build.

>    Let Cloud use its default service account.

Author: I don't think guide is a good idea.

We're not going to provide explicit steps for this.
There are many ways you can connect to a source repository.

Many events you can configure, etc.

We're not going to debate these in detail. We could pick one and give an example, but then we'd be going into details about how to use Cloud Build with a specific kind of source repository. I think this is unnecessarily detailed.

Let's instead say that you must configure "Cloud Build Configuration" and not specify a service account.

The cloud build configuration is really obvious, specifying a service account is the only tempting mistake you can make because we've previously created a service account.
But it was created to be impersonated by the default Cloud Build service account, not to be used as service account for cloud build runs, this is a distinction that we should explain. Because it's an obvious mistake most people include your truly would make :D

Author: IMO, I think it's best to leave it up to `[creating and managing build triggers][21]` to explain how to create a trigger

{{site.alert.note}}
  You can configure the Cloud Build trigger to run under a custom
  _service account_. If you want to do this, create a new service
  account for this purpose. Allow this service account to impersonate
  the `pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com` account which can
  publish to pub.dev.

  In the configuration of the `pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com`
  service account, the default Cloud Build service account
  `$PROJECT_NUMBER@cloudbuild.gserviceaccount.com` can impersonate the
  `pub-dev@$PROJECT_ID.iam.gserviceaccount.com` service account.

  To learn more about custom service accounts for running Cloud Builds,
  check out [Configuring user-specified service accounts][22].
{{site.alert.end}}

When configuring your Cloud Build Trigger, consider who can trigger the

> build. _Anyone who can trigger the build can publish your package._

Author: > _Anyone who can trigger the build can publish your package._

That's a strong statement.

Consider allowing only manual builds or use
[Cloud Build approvals][17] to gate builds as outlined in next section.

### Hardening security with Cloud Build Approvals

When configuring a Cloud Build Trigger, you can select
**require approval before build executes**. If a Cloud Build Trigger
requires approval, it won't run when triggered. It waits for approval.

> Use this to limit who can publish new versions of your package.

Author: > Use this to limit who can publish new versions of your package.

Strong statement,

You may, you can, but "use" -- that's strong -- there are lots of reasonable setups where you don't do this.
It's an option available to you for hardening security. Not a requirement for security. Maybe your repository is lock down sufficiently.
Maybe you're only using manually triggered publishing, etc.

1. Save the `key-file.json` file for later use.

Treat the `key-file.json` like a password.
Anyone who gains access to it can authenticate as the service account
and publish your package.

#### Publish packages using exported service account keys

To publish a package using exported service account keys:

1. Setup gcloud to authenticate using key-file.json

    ```console
    gcloud auth activate-service-account --key-file=key-file.json
    ```

1. Create a temporary token for pub.dev and add it to
   `dart pub token add`.
   To impersonate service account, include the `--include-email` option.

    ```console
    gcloud auth print-identity-token \
      --audiences=https://pub.dev \
      | dart pub token add https://pub.dev
    ```

1. Publish using the temporary token.
   Add the `--force` option to skip the `yes/no` prompt.

    ```console
    dart pub publish --force
    ```

{{site.alert.note}}
  Consider using [Workload Identity Federation][23] if possible. This
  avoids long-lived secrets. Relying on workload identity federation
  allows you to use short-lived secrets that your cloud provider signs.
  As short-lived secrets expire, this limits the negative implications

>   if leaked in logs or similar ways.

Author: read weird.. or maybe it's just me.
